678 SIND.
Purwana granted by GHOOLAM SHAH ABBASEE, Prince of Sind, in favor of the Hon’ble English East India Company, dated the 18th Mohurrum, or 22nd September 1758, A. D.
 BE IT KNOWN TO ALL COMMANDERS, OFFICERS, FARMERS, AND INHABITANTS OF DHURAT* LAREE BUNDER, AURUNGABUNDER, CAVANDREE, DARA-JAH, CHAVOTRA MASSOOLLIE, NAKASS, BARBANDIE GOOL ABAJAR, GOOJAR, RAJAGUNT, JOHILDAR, SARKAR CHACHAGON, CHARCARHALAN, SARKAR NAS-SARPOOR, HALLARCANDY, SARKAR SUISTAM, COODABAGE, SARKARLORAH, &c. PLACES BELONGING T0 SARKAR, That Mr. Sumption, Goomashtah or Agent, did, for and in behalf of the Governor, belonging to the Hon'ble English Company of Bombay, inform here, that on all the goods he purchases and sells for the Honorable Company, he pays no more than 1½  per cent. Customs on the market price, which I hereby con?rm and order, that no more than that Custom may be received of him as usual ; but on all Europe goods which shall be sent from Bombay here, and hence to Coodabage, Lorey, Mooltan, &c., or any brought from thence, they are to pay on the same half of what Customs, &c. charges (such as passports, convoy, lodgings, Duar Touff Cana Chowkey, &c.) the Mooltanee merchants pay ; and should there be such goods as the Mooltanees never carry, and it be impossible to know the charges and Customs on them, they (the English) are to pay half of what any of the considerable merchants pay on the same, but nobody is to demand anything more, and the same Customs, &c. as are above mentioned, they are to pay on Hing, Indigo, &c. goods which they never bought before, and they are also to pay 1½ per cent. Custom on the saltpetre, be it bought by themselves, or by any body for them, in Sirkar's place, or anywhere else ; but no Of?cers, farmers, &c. are to demand any thing more from them, but let them carry on their trade unmolested ; and the above-mentioned goods nobody else shall have liberty to buy; and I further order, that should their goods not be disposed of, and they want to carry them back, no Custom shall he demanded on them, nor on any provisions (such as cattle, goats, &c. provi-sions) which they may provide at Tatta and other places, to send on board their ships for their maintenance. They are also not to demand any thing for their gardens, nor in any shape molest their Gardeners’ boats, vessels, &c., conveyances, or send them on any Sirkar’s business, and it is also ordered that their chests of linen may not be opened, or the least hindrance shown them, in passing and repassing, it being contrary to our rules; and in short no one 
must presume to make any new Custom to their prejudice, by any former Rules or rates, or in any shape put any affront on them and their people; they have also free liberty to provide any sort of grain, and sell the same, and any Europe goods, at any rate they please. The Customs on the Duppers of Ghee, Oil, &c., as also on the chests and pots of goods, are to be charged conforma-ble to the weight they put on each Dupper, chest, or pot, without weighing them again. The Customs on elephants’ teeth are to be received on the amount of sale, when sold, at the same rate as was usual in the time of the Prince Mahomed Moorad, and should the (English) Governor either buy, or build a house for a factory, at Aurungabunder, or at Tatta, my said people are to give all assistance, that it may cost but a reasonable price; and he is to have all encouragement for carrying on his trade, as it will be an advantage to the Government, but no other nations that wear hats shall have permission for it ; and as it is very necessary that I should encourage and please the English, I hereby order, that an entire compliance may be shewn to this, with-out demanding any new order every year. 
Dated 22nd September 1758.

* NOTE--In the spelling of these words the form has been adopted which is used in the Manuscript copy of this Purwana recorded amongst the records of the Bombay Government for the years 1758-59.